# Domain 3.4 operate and monitor security platforms:

## Objectives:

### -1.review steps for monitoring/ incident detection/ DLP(data loss prevention).

### -2.Classify tools about IT envs to examine orgs' security posture(like zerotrust posture check).

### -3.Identify possible attack/intrusion events.

### -4.Methods for managing log files.

---

## Overview:

- Monitoring involves observing known subjects, like:
- system
- endpoints
- users
- network traffic flow

---

## 3.4.1 Source Sys:

### - Any system with data traversing(passing through), will be considered as part in the scope of risk assesments.

### - Source Sys can be divided into 4 categories:

#### -1._Applications_:

##### ex: SaaS/CRM/ERP/EIP.

#### -2._Security Appliances_:

##### def: hardware/virtual devices provding security protection/visability/monitoring capabilities.

##### ex:firewalls/IDS(Intrution Defense System)/IPS(Intrution Prevention System)/SIEM(Security Information & Event Management )

#### -3._Network devices_:

##### ex:routers/switches/access points/ network between systems.

#### -4._Hosts_:

##### def: typically end-point users' device suck as work station/ mobile devices, usually carries sensetive data like physical/ digital finger-prints.

---

## 3.4.1.A Data Sources for risk management:

### Data works better for fitting the needs in risk management framework , including abstraction/details/period.

### For instance:

#### - Risk assessment must understand persistent, long-term risks, and be able to correlate their potential impacts and frequency of occurrence to the organization’s strategic (long-term) and tactical (near-term) goals and objectives. Time periods tend to be measured in weeks or months, for example.

#### - Risk response takes specific types of attacks and chooses controls based on the technical, operational, and other characteristics of the attack as a pattern, given the details of the organization’s existing or planned information systems, its technologies, and operational procedures. Time periods studied may minutes to hours or days to make practical choices between alternative control strategies.

#### - Risk monitoring must sound the alarm when an attack on the organization’s information and information systems is suspected, or within a short period of time after such an attack. Time periods can be as small as milliseconds.

---

## 3.4.1.B Risk Assessment: Data Sources:

### 2 Dimensions:

#### - Stratagic level

##### - Broadly considers the organization, its goals and objectives

##### - Markets or environments it operates in

##### - The threats it may face at that level.

##### - The organization’s strategic and tactical planning efforts should have assembled a rich set of data, which together with those plans identifies the critical business processes and assets that must be protected.

##### - Typically, these are documented in a business impact analysis (BIA) report.

#### - Lower level

##### - risk assessment draws on current business operational data

##### - Including security-related data, to identify potential, emerging, or yet overlooked sources of risks.

##### - Trending data related to information security risks, either regional or industry-wide in focus, can also feed the risk assessment process.

##### - This data tends to be aggregated at monthly or annual levels.

---

## 3.4.1.C Risk Response: Data Sources:

Choosing to treat a risk may involve selecting controls to detect the occurrence of a risk event

### - Preventing damage or compromise to information and information systems,

### - Alert security personnel to the event and facilitate taking corrective actions.

### - Decisions about risk treatment may require in-depth knowledge of both the systems being protected and the types of attacks that might occur.

### - Some of this data is available from published sources of CVE data, while other data will come from the organization’s own systems.

### - In some cases, selecting the right controls may require detailed simulation of different control approaches and attack scenarios(may involved ethical penetration testing).

### - Generating datas in mb,gb to tb, thus needs analysis.
